
A spark of relief popped into Paul’s eye then quickly retreated, “How can I trust you?”

The man smiled, “I just wanted to see if you would still go through with it.”

“Isn’t it your job to fuck with me? Eternal torment and all that?”

The man laughed and leaned in, “I’m not the devil Paul,” he smiled and offered the hand again, “Come. Let’s go.”  Paul took a moment, then nodded, took it and got up. He walked over and picked up his origami swan off the floor. As they were at the door of the diner, Paul turned around and looked at Renee still standing at the window of the diner.

“She’s still there.” He told the man.

“Not for long.” The man responded without turning around.

They made their way outside. The EMTs had pulled the bodies from the wreck and placed Paul on a stretcher, Renee lay on an identical one beside him. The medics were working hard on both of them compressing their chests, a defibrillator was being used on Renee. Paul and the man stood off to the side, watching.

Paul held up his origami swan to the man, “May I” he asked.

“It’ll haunt her.” The man warned.

Paul nodded and walked over to the wreck, he drifted into dispersing smoke, through a dying fire, past scrambling medics and firemen and reached Renee’s body. He tucked the swan into her coat pocket, stood back and looked over her. Then turned and returned to the man. As he did, a jolt of the defibrillator brought Renee back to life with a gasp. The medics immediately strapped on the oxygen mask. Renee looked around in confusion until her eyes fell on the lifeless body of Paul beside her. The medics loaded her up into the ambulance, her hand still stretched out towards her dead husband.

Paul and the man watched as the ambulance door shut, then turned. They began walking down the street, fading gradually.

“First time I’ve heard some say looking at an ocean is their favorite memory.” Confessed the man with no name.

“It was with her, that’s the difference. Every memory is about who you share it with. A kiss is but a kiss.” Paul replied

“Paolo Nutini?” the man asked and Paul nodded. He laughed and before they completely vanished, added “It’s going to be fun getting to know you Paul.”